# [Papers] Cryptography <!-- omit in toc -->

count=64

## Table of Contents <!-- omit in toc -->

- [1. Symmetric Encryption](#1-symmetric-encryption)
  - [1.1. Searchable Symmetric Entryption](#11-searchable-symmetric-entryption)
  - [1.2. Others](#12-others)
- [2. Homomorphic Encryption](#2-homomorphic-encryption)
  - [2.1. Fully Homomorphic Encryption](#21-fully-homomorphic-encryption)
  - [2.2. Application in Deep Learning](#22-application-in-deep-learning)
  - [2.3. Others](#23-others)
- [3. Cryptographic Hash Functions](#3-cryptographic-hash-functions)
- [4. Post-Quantum Cryptography](#4-post-quantum-cryptography)
  - [4.1. Surveys](#41-surveys)
  - [4.2. Key Distribution](#42-key-distribution)
  - [4.3. Others](#43-others)

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## 1. Symmetric Encryption

### 1.1. Searchable Symmetric Entryption

* [[Non-interactive Multi-client Searchable Symmetric Encryption with Small Client Storage](https://arxiv.org/abs/2212.02859)]
    [[pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2212.02859.pdf)]
    [[vanity](https://www.arxiv-vanity.com/papers/2212.02859/)]
    * Title: Non-interactive Multi-client Searchable Symmetric Encryption with Small Client Storage
    * Year: 06 Dec `2022`
    * Authors: Hanqi Zhang, Chang Xu, Rongxing Lu, Liehuang Zhu, Chuan Zhang, Yunguo Guan
    * Abstract: Considerable attention has been paid to dynamic searchable symmetric encryption (DSSE) which allows users to search on dynamically updated encrypted databases. To improve the performance of real-world applications, recent non-interactive multi-client DSSE schemes are targeted at avoiding per-query interaction between data owners and data users. However, existing non-interactive multi-client DSSE schemes do not consider forward privacy or backward privacy, making them exposed to leakage abuse attacks. Besides, most existing DSSE schemes with forward and backward privacy rely on keeping a keyword operation counter or an inverted index, resulting in a heavy storage burden on the data owner side. To address these issues, we propose a non-interactive multi-client DSSE scheme with small client storage, and our proposed scheme can provide both forward privacy and backward privacy. Specifically, we first design a lightweight storage chain structure that binds all keywords to a single state to reduce the storage cost. Then, we present a Hidden Key technique, which preserves non-interactive forward privacy through time range queries, ensuring that data with newer timestamps cannot match earlier time ranges. We conduct extensive experiments to validate our methods, which demonstrate computational efficiency. Moreover, security analysis proves the privacy-preserving property of our methods.
* [[Dynamic Local Searchable Symmetric Encryption](https://arxiv.org/abs/2201.05006)]
    [[pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2201.05006.pdf)]
    [[vanity](https://www.arxiv-vanity.com/papers/2201.05006/)]
    * Title: Dynamic Local Searchable Symmetric Encryption
    * Year: 13 Jan `2022`
    * Authors: Brice Minaud, Michael Reichle
    * Abstract: In this article, we tackle for the first time the problem of dynamic memory-efficient Searchable Symmetric Encryption (SSE). In the term "memory-efficient" SSE, we encompass both the goals of local SSE, and page-efficient SSE. The centerpiece of our approach is a novel connection between those two goals. We introduce a map, called the Generic Local Transform, which takes as input a page-efficient SSE scheme with certain special features, and outputs an SSE scheme with strong locality properties. We obtain several results. (1) First, for page-efficient SSE, we build a dynamic scheme with page efficiency $O(\log \log N)$ and storage efficiency $O(1)$, called LayeredSSE. The main technical innovation behind LayeredSSE is a new weighted extension of the two-choice allocation process, of independent interest. (2) Second, we introduce the Generic Local Transform, and combine it with LayeredSSE to build a dynamic SSE scheme with storage efficiency $O(1)$, locality $O(1)$, and read efficiency $O(\log\log N)$, under the condition that the longest list is of size $O(N^{1-1/\log \log \lambda})$. This matches, in every respect, the purely static construction of Asharov et al. presented at STOC 2016: dynamism comes at no extra cost. (3) Finally, by applying the Generic Local Transform to a variant of the Tethys scheme by Bossuat et al. from Crypto 2021, we build an unconditional static SSE with storage efficiency $O(1)$, locality $O(1)$, and read efficiency $O(\log^\varepsilon N)$, for an arbitrarily small constant $\varepsilon > 0$. To our knowledge, this is the construction that comes closest to the lower bound presented by Cash and Tessaro at Eurocrypt 2014.
* [[IHOP: Improved Statistical Query Recovery against Searchable Symmetric Encryption through Quadratic Optimization](https://arxiv.org/abs/2110.04180)]
    [[pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2110.04180.pdf)]
    [[vanity](https://www.arxiv-vanity.com/papers/2110.04180/)]
    * Title: IHOP: Improved Statistical Query Recovery against Searchable Symmetric Encryption through Quadratic Optimization
    * Year: 08 Oct `2021`
    * Authors: Simon Oya, Florian Kerschbaum
    * Abstract: Effective query recovery attacks against Searchable Symmetric Encryption (SSE) schemes typically rely on auxiliary ground-truth information about the queries or dataset. Query recovery is also possible under the weaker statistical auxiliary information assumption, although statistical-based attacks achieve lower accuracy and are not considered a serious threat. In this work we present IHOP, a statistical-based query recovery attack that formulates query recovery as a quadratic optimization problem and reaches a solution by iterating over linear assignment problems. We perform an extensive evaluation with five real datasets, and show that IHOP outperforms all other statistical-based query recovery attacks under different parameter and leakage configurations, including the case where the client uses some access-pattern obfuscation defenses. In some cases, our attack achieves almost perfect query recovery accuracy. Finally, we use IHOP in a frequency-only leakage setting where the client's queries are correlated, and show that our attack can exploit query dependencies even when PANCAKE, a recent frequency-hiding defense by Grubbs et al., is applied. Our findings indicate that statistical query recovery attacks pose a severe threat to privacy-preserving SSE schemes.
* [[Dynamic Searchable Symmetric Encryption Schemes Supporting Range Queries with Forward/Backward Privacy](https://arxiv.org/abs/1905.08561)]
    [[pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1905.08561.pdf)]
    [[vanity](https://www.arxiv-vanity.com/papers/1905.08561/)]
    * Title: Dynamic Searchable Symmetric Encryption Schemes Supporting Range Queries with Forward/Backward Privacy
    * Year: 21 May `2019`
    * Authors: Cong Zuo, Shi-Feng Sun, Joseph K. Liu, Jun Shao, Josef Pieprzyk
    * Abstract: Dynamic searchable symmetric encryption (DSSE) is a useful cryptographic tool in encrypted cloud storage. However, it has been reported that DSSE usually suffers from file-injection attacks and content leak of deleted documents. To mitigate these attacks, forward privacy and backward privacy have been proposed. Nevertheless, the existing forward/backward-private DSSE schemes can only support single keyword queries. To address this problem, in this paper, we propose two DSSE schemes supporting range queries. One is forward-private and supports a large number of documents. The other can achieve backward privacy, while it can only support a limited number of documents. Finally, we also give the security proofs of the proposed DSSE schemes in the random oracle model.
* [[A Practical Searchable Symmetric Encryption Scheme for Smart Grid Data](https://arxiv.org/abs/1808.00645)]
    [[pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1808.00645.pdf)]
    [[vanity](https://www.arxiv-vanity.com/papers/1808.00645/)]
    * Title: A Practical Searchable Symmetric Encryption Scheme for Smart Grid Data
    * Year: 02 Aug `2018`
    * Authors: Jiangnan Li, Xiangyu Niu, Jinyuan Stella Sun
    * Abstract: Outsourcing data storage to the remote cloud can be an economical solution to enhance data management in the smart grid ecosystem. To protect the privacy of data, the utility company may choose to encrypt the data before uploading them to the cloud. However, while encryption provides confidentiality to data, it also sacrifices the data owners' ability to query a special segment in their data. Searchable symmetric encryption is a technology that enables users to store documents in ciphertext form while keeping the functionality to search keywords in the documents. However, most state-of-the-art SSE algorithms are only focusing on general document storage, which may become unsuitable for smart grid applications. In this paper, we propose a simple, practical SSE scheme that aims to protect the privacy of data generated in the smart grid. Our scheme achieves high space complexity with small information disclosure that was acceptable for practical smart grid application. We also implement a prototype over the statistical data of advanced meter infrastructure to show the effectiveness of our approach.
* [[A Searchable Symmetric Encryption Scheme using BlockChain](https://arxiv.org/abs/1711.01030)]
    [[pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1711.01030.pdf)]
    [[vanity](https://www.arxiv-vanity.com/papers/1711.01030/)]
    * Title: A Searchable Symmetric Encryption Scheme using BlockChain
    * Year: 03 Nov `2017`
    * Authors: Huige Li, Fangguo Zhang, Jiejie He, Haibo Tian
    * Abstract: At present, the cloud storage used in searchable symmetric encryption schemes (SSE) is provided in a private way, which cannot be seen as a true cloud. Moreover, the cloud server is thought to be credible, because it always returns the search result to the user, even they are not correct. In order to really resist this malicious adversary and accelerate the usage of the data, it is necessary to store the data on a public chain, which can be seen as a decentralized system. As the increasing amount of the data, the search problem becomes more and more intractable, because there does not exist any effective solution at present. In this paper, we begin by pointing out the importance of storing the data in a public chain. We then innovatively construct a model of SSE using blockchain(SSE-using-BC) and give its security definition to ensure the privacy of the data and improve the search efficiency. According to the size of data, we consider two different cases and propose two corresponding schemes. Lastly, the security and performance analyses show that our scheme is feasible and secure.
* [[Forward Private Searchable Symmetric Encryption with Optimized I/O Efficiency](https://arxiv.org/abs/1710.00183)]
    [[pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1710.00183.pdf)]
    [[vanity](https://www.arxiv-vanity.com/papers/1710.00183/)]
    * Title: Forward Private Searchable Symmetric Encryption with Optimized I/O Efficiency
    * Year: 30 Sep `2017`
    * Authors: Xiangfu Song, Changyu Dong, Dandan Yuan, Qiuliang Xu, Minghao Zhao
    * Abstract: Recently, several practical attacks raised serious concerns over the security of searchable encryption. The attacks have brought emphasis on forward privacy, which is the key concept behind solutions to the adaptive leakage-exploiting attacks, and will very likely to become mandatory in the design of new searchable encryption schemes. For a long time, forward privacy implies inefficiency and thus most existing searchable encryption schemes do not support it. Very recently, Bost (CCS 2016) showed that forward privacy can be obtained without inducing a large communication overhead. However, Bost's scheme is constructed with a relatively inefficient public key cryptographic primitive, and has a poor I/O performance. Both of the deficiencies significantly hinder the practical efficiency of the scheme, and prevent it from scaling to large data settings. To address the problems, we first present FAST, which achieves forward privacy and the same communication efficiency as Bost's scheme, but uses only symmetric cryptographic primitives. We then present FASTIO, which retains all good properties of FAST, and further improves I/O efficiency. We implemented the two schemes and compared their performance with Bost's scheme. The experiment results show that both our schemes are highly efficient, and FASTIO achieves a much better scalability due to its optimized I/O.

### 1.2. Others

* [[Comparative evaluation of different methods of "Homomorphic Encryption" and "Traditional Encryption" on a dataset with current problems and developments](https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.10028)]
    [[pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2211.10028.pdf)]
    [[vanity](https://www.arxiv-vanity.com/papers/2211.10028/)]
    * Title: Comparative evaluation of different methods of "Homomorphic Encryption" and "Traditional Encryption" on a dataset with current problems and developments
    * Year: 18 Nov `2022`
    * Authors: Tanvi S. Patel, Srinivasakranthikiran Kolachina, Daxesh P. Patel, Pranav S. Shrivastav
    * Abstract: A database is a prime target for cyber-attacks as it contains confidential, sensitive, or protected information. With the increasing sophistication of the internet and dependencies on internet data transmission, it has become vital to be aware of various encryption technologies and trends. It can assist in safeguarding private information and sensitive data, as well as improve the security of client-server communication. Database encryption is a procedure that employs an algorithm to convert data contained in a database into "cipher text," which is incomprehensible until decoded. Homomorphic encryption technology, which works with encrypted data, can be utilized in both symmetric and asymmetric systems. In this paper, we evaluated homomorphic encryption techniques based on recent highly cited articles, as well as compared all database encryption problems and developments since 2018. The benefits and drawbacks of homomorphic approaches were examined over classic encryption methods including Transparent Database Encryption, Column Level Encryption, Field Level Encryption, File System Level Encryption, and Encrypting File System Encryption in this review. Additionally, popular databases that provide encryption services to their customers to protect their data are also examined.
* [[Local inversion of maps: A new attack on Symmetric encryption, RSA and ECDLP](https://arxiv.org/abs/2202.06584)]
    [[pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2202.06584.pdf)]
    [[vanity](https://www.arxiv-vanity.com/papers/2202.06584/)]
    * Title: Local inversion of maps: A new attack on Symmetric encryption, RSA and ECDLP
    * Year: 14 Feb `2022`
    * Authors: Virendra Sule
    * Abstract: This paper presents algorithms for local inversion of maps and shows how several important computational problems such as cryptanalysis of symmetric encryption algorithms, RSA algorithm and solving the elliptic curve discrete log problem (ECDLP) can be addressed as local inversion problems. The methodology is termed as the \emph{Local Inversion Attack}. It utilizes the concept of \emph{Linear Complexity} (LC) of a recurrence sequence generated by the map defined by the cryptanalysis problem and the given data. It is shown that when the LC of the recurrence is bounded by a bound of polynomial order in the bit length of the input to the map, the local inversion can be accomplished in polynomial time. Hence an incomplete local inversion algorithm which searches a solution within a specified bound on computation can estimate the density of weak cases of cryptanalysis defined by such data causing low LC. Such cases can happen accidentally but cannot be avoided in practice and are fatal insecurity flaws of cryptographic primitives which are wrongly assumed to be secure on the basis of exponential average case complexity. An incomplete algorithm is proposed for solving problems such as key recovery of symmetric encryption algorithms, decryption of RSA ciphertext without factoring the modulus, decrypting any ciphertext of RSA given one plaintext ciphertext pair created with same public key in chosen ciphertext attack and solving the discrete logarithm on elliptic curves over finite fields (ECDLP) as local inversion problems. It is shown that when the LCs of the respective recurrences for given data are small, solutions of these problems are possible in practically feasible time and memory resources.
* [[Efficient Lightweight Encryption Algorithm for Smart Video Applications](https://arxiv.org/abs/1901.08344)]
    [[pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1901.08344.pdf)]
    [[vanity](https://www.arxiv-vanity.com/papers/1901.08344/)]
    * Title: Efficient Lightweight Encryption Algorithm for Smart Video Applications
    * Year: 24 Jan `2019`
    * Authors: Amna Shifa, Mamoona Naveed Asghar, Naila Batool, Martin Fluery
    * Abstract: The future generation networks: Internet of things (IoT), in combination with the advanced computer vision techniques poses new challenges for securing videos for end-users. The visual devices generally have constrained resources in respects to their low computation power, small memory with limited power supply. Therefore, to facilitate the video security in smart environment, lightweight security schemes are required instead of inefficient existing traditional cryptography algorithms. This research paper provides the solution to overcome such problems. A novel lightweight cipher algorithm is proposed here which targets multimedia in IoT with an in-house name EXPer i.e. Extended permutation with eXclusive OR (XOR). EXPer is a symmetric stream cipher that consists of simple XOR and left shift operations with three keys of 128 bits. The proposed cipher algorithm has been tested on various sample videos. Comparison of proposed algorithm has been made with the traditional cipher algorithms XOR and Advanced Encryption Standard (AES). Visual results confirm that EXPer provides security level equivalent to the AES algorithm with less computational cost than AES. Therefore, it can easily be perceived that the EXPer is a better replacement of AES for securing real-time video applications in IoT.
* [[A novel encryption algorithm using multiple semifield S-boxes based on permutation of symmetric group](https://arxiv.org/abs/2004.12264)]
    [[pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2004.12264.pdf)]
    [[vanity](https://www.arxiv-vanity.com/papers/2004.12264/)]
    * Title: A novel encryption algorithm using multiple semifield S-boxes based on permutation of symmetric group
    * Year: 26 Apr `2020`
    * Authors: Iqtadar Hussain, Amir Anees, Temadher Alassiry Al-Maadeed, M. T. Mustafa
    * Abstract: With the tremendous benefits of internet and advanced communications, there is a serious threat from the data security perspective. There is a need of secure and robust encryption algorithm that can be implemented on each and diverse software and hardware platforms. Also, in block symmetric encryption algorithms, substitution boxes are the most vital part. In this paper, we investigate semifield substitution boxes using permutation of symmetric group on a set of size 8 S_8 and establish an effective procedure for generating S_8 semifield substitution boxes having same algebraic properties. Further, the strength analysis of the generated substitution boxes is carried out using the well-known standards namely bijectivity, nonlinearity, strict avalanche criterion, bit independence criterion, XOR table and differential invariant. Based on the analysis results, it is shown that the cryptographic strength of generated substitution boxes is on par with the best known $8\times 8$ substitution boxes. As application, an encryption algorithm is proposed that can be employed to strengthen any kind of secure communication. The presented algorithm is mainly based on the Shannon idea of (S-P) network where the process of substitution is performed by the proposed S_8 semifield substitution boxes and permutation operation is performed by the binary cyclic shift of substitution box transformed data. In addition, the proposed encryption algorithm utilizes two different chaotic maps. In order to ensure the appropriate utilization of these chaotic maps, we carry out in-depth analyses of their behavior in the context of secure communication and apply the pseudo-random sequences of chaotic maps in the proposed image encryption algorithm accordingly. The statistical and simulation results imply that our encryption scheme is secure against different attacks and can resist linear and differential cryptanalysis.
* [[A Class of Non Invertible Matrices in GF (2) for Practical One Way Hash Algorithm](https://arxiv.org/abs/1210.1925)]
    [[pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1210.1925.pdf)]
    [[vanity](https://www.arxiv-vanity.com/papers/1210.1925/)]
    * Title: A Class of Non Invertible Matrices in GF (2) for Practical One Way Hash Algorithm
    * Year: 06 Oct `2012`
    * Authors: Artan Berisha, Behar Baxhaku, Artan Alidema
    * Abstract: In this paper, we describe non invertible matrix in GF(2)which can be used as multiplication matrix in Hill Cipher technique for one way hash algorithm. The matrices proposed are permutation matrices with exactly one entry 1 in each row and each column and 0 elsewhere. Such matrices represent a permutation of m elements. Since the invention, Hill cipher algorithm was used for symmetric encryption, where the multiplication matrix is the key. The Hill cipher requires the inverse of the matrix to recover the plaintext from cipher text. We propose a class of matrices in GF(2) which are non invertible and easy to generate.

## 2. Homomorphic Encryption

### 2.1. Fully Homomorphic Encryption

* [[Strix: An End-to-End Streaming Architecture with Two-Level Ciphertext Batching for Fully Homomorphic Encryption with Programmable Bootstrapping](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.11423)]
    [[pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11423.pdf)]
    [[vanity](https://www.arxiv-vanity.com/papers/2305.11423/)]
    * Title: Strix: An End-to-End Streaming Architecture with Two-Level Ciphertext Batching for Fully Homomorphic Encryption with Programmable Bootstrapping
    * Year: 19 May `2023`
    * Authors: Adiwena Putra, Prasetiyo, Yi Chen, John Kim, Joo-Young Kim
    * Abstract: Homomorphic encryption (HE) enables computations on encrypted data by concealing information under noise for security. However, the process of bootstrapping, which resets the noise level in the ciphertext, is computationally expensive and requires a large bootstrapping key. The TFHE scheme offers a faster and programmable bootstrapping algorithm called PBS, crucial for security-focused applications like machine learning. Nevertheless, the current TFHE scheme lacks support for ciphertext packing, resulting in low throughput. This work thoroughly analyzes TFHE bootstrapping, identifies the bottleneck in GPUs caused by the blind rotation fragmentation problem, and proposes a hardware TFHE accelerator called Strix. Strix introduces a two-level batching approach to enhance the batch size in PBS, utilizes a specialized microarchitecture for efficient streaming data processing, and incorporates a fully-pipelined FFT microarchitecture to improve performance. It achieves significantly higher throughput than state-of-the-art implementations on both CPUs and GPUs, outperforming existing TFHE accelerators by a factor of 7.4.
* [[Revisiting Fully Homomorphic Encryption Schemes](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.05904)]
    [[pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.05904.pdf)]
    [[vanity](https://www.arxiv-vanity.com/papers/2305.05904/)]
    * Title: Revisiting Fully Homomorphic Encryption Schemes
    * Year: 10 May `2023`
    * Authors: Nimish Jain, Aswani Kumar Cherukuri
    * Abstract: Homomorphic encryption is a sophisticated encryption technique that allows computations on encrypted data to be done without the requirement for decryption. This trait makes homomorphic encryption appropriate for safe computation in sensitive data scenarios, such as cloud computing, medical data exchange, and financial transactions. The data is encrypted using a public key in homomorphic encryption, and the calculation is conducted on the encrypted data using an algorithm that retains the encryption. The computed result is then decrypted with a private key to acquire the final output. This abstract notion protects data while allowing complicated computations to be done on the encrypted data, resulting in a secure and efficient approach to analysing sensitive information. This article is intended to give a clear idea about the various fully Homomorphic Encryption Schemes present in the literature and analyse and compare the results of each of these schemes. Further, we also provide applications and open-source tools of homomorphic encryption schemes.
* [[Practical Solutions in Fully Homomorphic Encryption -- A Survey Analyzing Existing Acceleration Methods](https://arxiv.org/abs/2303.10877)]
    [[pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.10877.pdf)]
    [[vanity](https://www.arxiv-vanity.com/papers/2303.10877/)]
    * Title: Practical Solutions in Fully Homomorphic Encryption -- A Survey Analyzing Existing Acceleration Methods
    * Year: 20 Mar `2023`
    * Authors: Yanwei Gong, Xiaolin Chang, Jelena Mišić, Vojislav B. Mišić, Jianhua Wang, Haoran Zhu
    * Abstract: Fully homomorphic encryption (FHE) has experienced significant development and continuous breakthroughs in theory, enabling its widespread application in various fields, like outsourcing computation and secure multi-party computing, in order to preserve privacy. Nonetheless, the application of FHE is constrained by its substantial computing overhead and storage cost. Researchers have proposed practical acceleration solutions to address these issues. This paper aims to provide a comprehensive survey for systematically comparing and analyzing the strengths and weaknesses of FHE acceleration schemes, which is currently lacking in the literature. The relevant researches conducted between 2019 and 2022 are investigated. We first provide a comprehensive summary of the latest research findings on accelerating FHE, aiming to offer valuable insights for researchers interested in FHE acceleration. Secondly, we classify existing acceleration schemes from algorithmic and hardware perspectives. We also propose evaluation metrics and conduct a detailed comparison of various methods. Finally, our study presents the future research directions of FHE acceleration, and also offers both guidance and support for practical application and theoretical research in this field.
* [[vFHE: Verifiable Fully Homomorphic Encryption with Blind Hash](https://arxiv.org/abs/2303.08886)]
    [[pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.08886.pdf)]
    [[vanity](https://www.arxiv-vanity.com/papers/2303.08886/)]
    * Title: vFHE: Verifiable Fully Homomorphic Encryption with Blind Hash
    * Year: 15 Mar `2023`
    * Authors: Qian Lou, Muhammad Santriaji, Ardhi Wiratama Baskara Yudha, Jiaqi Xue, Yan Solihin
    * Abstract: Fully homomorphic encryption (FHE) is a powerful encryption technique that allows for computation to be performed on ciphertext without the need for decryption. FHE will thus enable privacy-preserving computation and a wide range of applications, such as secure cloud computing on sensitive medical and financial data, secure machine learning, etc. Prior research in FHE has largely concentrated on improving its speed, and great stride has been made. However, there has been a scarcity of research on addressing a major challenge of FHE computation: client-side data owners cannot verify the integrity of the calculations performed by the service and computation providers, hence cannot be assured of the correctness of computation results. This is particularly concerning when the service or computation provider may act in an untrustworthy, unreliable, or malicious manner and tampers the computational results. Prior work on ensuring FHE computational integrity has been non-universal or incurring too much overhead. We propose vFHE to add computational integrity to FHE without losing universality and without incurring high performance overheads.
* [[Verifiable encodings in multigroup fully homomorphic encryption](https://arxiv.org/abs/2303.08432)]
    [[pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.08432.pdf)]
    [[vanity](https://www.arxiv-vanity.com/papers/2303.08432/)]
    * Title: Verifiable encodings in multigroup fully homomorphic encryption
    * Year: 15 Mar `2023`
    * Authors: Ramsès Fernàndez-València
    * Abstract: This article presents the application of homomorphic authenticators, replication encodings to be precise, to multigroup fully homomorphic encryption schemes. Following the works of Gennaro and Wichs on homomorphic authenticators in combination with the work of multigroup schemes by Kwak et al. we present a verifiable solution for a fully homomorphic primitive that includes the multikey, multiparty and single-user cases. Furthermore, we propose a line of prospective research in constrained-resource scenarios.
* [[Verifiable Fully Homomorphic Encryption](https://arxiv.org/abs/2301.07041)]
    [[pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.07041.pdf)]
    [[vanity](https://www.arxiv-vanity.com/papers/2301.07041/)]
    * Title: Verifiable Fully Homomorphic Encryption
    * Year: 17 Jan `2023`
    * Authors: Alexander Viand, Christian Knabenhans, Anwar Hithnawi
    * Abstract: Fully Homomorphic Encryption (FHE) is seeing increasing real-world deployment to protect data in use by allowing computation over encrypted data. However, the same malleability that enables homomorphic computations also raises integrity issues, which have so far been mostly overlooked. While FHEs lack of integrity has obvious implications for correctness, it also has severe implications for confidentiality: a malicious server can leverage the lack of integrity to carry out interactive key-recovery attacks. As a result, virtually all FHE schemes and applications assume an honest-but-curious server who does not deviate from the protocol. In practice, however, this assumption is insufficient for a wide range of deployment scenarios. While there has been work that aims to address this gap, these have remained isolated efforts considering only aspects of the overall problem and fail to fully address the needs and characteristics of modern FHE schemes and applications. In this paper, we analyze existing FHE integrity approaches, present attacks that exploit gaps in prior work, and propose a new notion for maliciously-secure verifiable FHE. We then instantiate this new notion with a range of techniques, analyzing them and evaluating their performance in a range of different settings. We highlight their potential but also show where future work on tailored integrity solutions for FHE is still required.
* [[SoK: Fully Homomorphic Encryption Accelerators](https://arxiv.org/abs/2212.01713)]
    [[pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2212.01713.pdf)]
    [[vanity](https://www.arxiv-vanity.com/papers/2212.01713/)]
    * Title: SoK: Fully Homomorphic Encryption Accelerators
    * Year: 04 Dec `2022`
    * Authors: Junxue Zhang, Xiaodian Cheng, Liu Yang, Jinbin Hu, Ximeng Liu, Kai Chen
    * Abstract: Fully Homomorphic Encryption~(FHE) is a key technology enabling privacy-preserving computing. However, the fundamental challenge of FHE is its inefficiency, due primarily to the underlying polynomial computations with high computation complexity and extremely time-consuming ciphertext maintenance operations. To tackle this challenge, various FHE accelerators have recently been proposed by both research and industrial communities. This paper takes the first initiative to conduct a systematic study on the 14 FHE accelerators -- cuHE/cuFHE, nuFHE, HEAT, HEAX, HEXL, HEXL-FPGA, 100$\times$, F1, CraterLake, BTS, ARK, Poseidon, FAB and TensorFHE. We first make our observations on the evolution trajectory of these existing FHE accelerators to establish a qualitative connection between them. Then, we perform testbed evaluations of representative open-source FHE accelerators to provide a quantitative comparison on them. Finally, with the insights learned from both qualitative and quantitative studies, we discuss potential directions to inform the future design and implementation for FHE accelerators.
* [[CryptoLight: An Electro-Optical Accelerator for Fully Homomorphic Encryption](https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.13780)]
    [[pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2211.13780.pdf)]
    [[vanity](https://www.arxiv-vanity.com/papers/2211.13780/)]
    * Title: CryptoLight: An Electro-Optical Accelerator for Fully Homomorphic Encryption
    * Year: 24 Nov `2022`
    * Authors: Mengxin Zheng, Qian Lou, Fan Chen, Lei Jiang, Yongxin Zhu
    * Abstract: Fully homomorphic encryption (FHE) protects data privacy in cloud computing by enabling computations to directly occur on ciphertexts. To improve the time-consuming FHE operations, we present an electro-optical (EO) FHE accelerator, CryptoLight. Compared to prior FHE accelerators, on average, CryptoLight reduces the latency of various FHE applications by >94.4% and the energy consumption by >95%

### 2.2. Application in Deep Learning

* [[Data Privacy with Homomorphic Encryption in Neural Networks Training and Inference](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.02225)]
    [[pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.02225.pdf)]
    [[vanity](https://www.arxiv-vanity.com/papers/2305.02225/)]
    * Title: Data Privacy with Homomorphic Encryption in Neural Networks Training and Inference
    * Year: 03 May `2023`
    * Authors: Ivone Amorim, Eva Maia, Pedro Barbosa, Isabel Praça
    * Abstract: The use of Neural Networks (NNs) for sensitive data processing is becoming increasingly popular, raising concerns about data privacy and security. Homomorphic Encryption (HE) has the potential to be used as a solution to preserve data privacy in NN. This study provides a comprehensive analysis on the use of HE for NN training and classification, focusing on the techniques and strategies used to enhance data privacy and security. The current state-of-the-art in HE for NNs is analysed, and the challenges and limitations that need to be addressed to make it a reliable and efficient approach for privacy preservation are identified. Also, the different categories of HE schemes and their suitability for NNs are discussed, as well as the techniques used to optimize the accuracy and efficiency of encrypted models. The review reveals that HE has the potential to provide strong data privacy guarantees for NNs, but several challenges need to be addressed, such as limited support for advanced NN operations, scalability issues, and performance trade-offs.
* [[Neural Network Quantisation for Faster Homomorphic Encryption](https://arxiv.org/abs/2304.09490)]
    [[pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.09490.pdf)]
    [[vanity](https://www.arxiv-vanity.com/papers/2304.09490/)]
    * Title: Neural Network Quantisation for Faster Homomorphic Encryption
    * Year: 19 Apr `2023`
    * Authors: Wouter Legiest, Jan-Pieter D'Anvers, Furkan Turan, Michiel Van Beirendonck, Ingrid Verbauwhede
    * Abstract: Homomorphic encryption (HE) enables calculating on encrypted data, which makes it possible to perform privacypreserving neural network inference. One disadvantage of this technique is that it is several orders of magnitudes slower than calculation on unencrypted data. Neural networks are commonly trained using floating-point, while most homomorphic encryption libraries calculate on integers, thus requiring a quantisation of the neural network. A straightforward approach would be to quantise to large integer sizes (e.g. 32 bit) to avoid large quantisation errors. In this work, we reduce the integer sizes of the networks, using quantisation-aware training, to allow more efficient computations. For the targeted MNIST architecture proposed by Badawi et al., we reduce the integer sizes by 33% without significant loss of accuracy, while for the CIFAR architecture, we can reduce the integer sizes by 43%. Implementing the resulting networks under the BFV homomorphic encryption scheme using SEAL, we could reduce the execution time of an MNIST neural network by 80% and by 40% for a CIFAR neural network.
* [[HyPHEN: A Hybrid Packing Method and Optimizations for Homomorphic Encryption-Based Neural Networks](https://arxiv.org/abs/2302.02407)]
    [[pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2302.02407.pdf)]
    [[vanity](https://www.arxiv-vanity.com/papers/2302.02407/)]
    * Title: HyPHEN: A Hybrid Packing Method and Optimizations for Homomorphic Encryption-Based Neural Networks
    * Year: 05 Feb `2023`
    * Authors: Donghwan Kim, Jaiyoung Park, Jongmin Kim, Sangpyo Kim, Jung Ho Ahn
    * Abstract: Convolutional neural network (CNN) inference using fully homomorphic encryption (FHE) is a promising private inference (PI) solution due to the capability of FHE that enables offloading the whole computation process to the server while protecting the privacy of sensitive user data. However, prior FHEbased CNN (HCNN) implementations are far from being practical due to the high computational and memory overheads of FHE. To overcome this limitation, we present HyPHEN, a deep HCNN construction that features an efficient FHE convolution algorithm, data packing methods (hybrid packing and image slicing), and FHE-specific optimizations. Such enhancements enable HyPHEN to substantially reduce the memory footprint and the number of expensive homomorphic operations, such as ciphertext rotation and bootstrapping. As a result, HyPHEN brings the latency of HCNN CIFAR-10 inference down to a practical level at 1.40s (ResNet20) and demonstrates HCNN ImageNet inference for the first time at 16.87s (ResNet18).
* [[TT-TFHE: a Torus Fully Homomorphic Encryption-Friendly Neural Network Architecture](https://arxiv.org/abs/2302.01584)]
    [[pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2302.01584.pdf)]
    [[vanity](https://www.arxiv-vanity.com/papers/2302.01584/)]
    * Title: TT-TFHE: a Torus Fully Homomorphic Encryption-Friendly Neural Network Architecture
    * Year: 03 Feb `2023`
    * Authors: Adrien Benamira, Tristan Guérand, Thomas Peyrin, Sayandeep Saha
    * Abstract: This paper presents TT-TFHE, a deep neural network Fully Homomorphic Encryption (FHE) framework that effectively scales Torus FHE (TFHE) usage to tabular and image datasets using a recent family of convolutional neural networks called Truth-Table Neural Networks (TTnet). The proposed framework provides an easy-to-implement, automated TTnet-based design toolbox with an underlying (python-based) open-source Concrete implementation (CPU-based and implementing lookup tables) for inference over encrypted data. Experimental evaluation shows that TT-TFHE greatly outperforms in terms of time and accuracy all Homomorphic Encryption (HE) set-ups on three tabular datasets, all other features being equal. On image datasets such as MNIST and CIFAR-10, we show that TT-TFHE consistently and largely outperforms other TFHE set-ups and is competitive against other HE variants such as BFV or CKKS (while maintaining the same level of 128-bit encryption security guarantees). In addition, our solutions present a very low memory footprint (down to dozens of MBs for MNIST), which is in sharp contrast with other HE set-ups that typically require tens to hundreds of GBs of memory per user (in addition to their communication overheads). This is the first work presenting a fully practical solution of private inference (i.e. a few seconds for inference time and a few dozens MBs of memory) on both tabular datasets and MNIST, that can easily scale to multiple threads and users on server side.
* [[HEMET: A Homomorphic-Encryption-Friendly Privacy-Preserving Mobile Neural Network Architecture](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.00038)]
    [[pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.00038.pdf)]
    [[vanity](https://www.arxiv-vanity.com/papers/2106.00038/)]
    * Title: HEMET: A Homomorphic-Encryption-Friendly Privacy-Preserving Mobile Neural Network Architecture
    * Year: 31 May `2021`
    * Authors: Qian Lou, Lei Jiang
    * Abstract: Recently Homomorphic Encryption (HE) is used to implement Privacy-Preserving Neural Networks (PPNNs) that perform inferences directly on encrypted data without decryption. Prior PPNNs adopt mobile network architectures such as SqueezeNet for smaller computing overhead, but we find naïvely using mobile network architectures for a PPNN does not necessarily achieve shorter inference latency. Despite having less parameters, a mobile network architecture typically introduces more layers and increases the HE multiplicative depth of a PPNN, thereby prolonging its inference latency. In this paper, we propose a \textbf{HE}-friendly privacy-preserving \textbf{M}obile neural n\textbf{ET}work architecture, \textbf{HEMET}. Experimental results show that, compared to state-of-the-art (SOTA) PPNNs, HEMET reduces the inference latency by $59.3\%\sim 61.2\%$, and improves the inference accuracy by $0.4 \% \sim 0.5\%$.
* [[Neural Network Training With Homomorphic Encryption](https://arxiv.org/abs/2012.13552)]
    [[pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2012.13552.pdf)]
    [[vanity](https://www.arxiv-vanity.com/papers/2012.13552/)]
    * Title: Neural Network Training With Homomorphic Encryption
    * Year: 25 Dec `2020`
    * Authors: Kentaro Mihara, Ryohei Yamaguchi, Miguel Mitsuishi, Yusuke Maruyama
    * Abstract: We introduce a novel method and implementation architecture to train neural networks which preserves the confidentiality of both the model and the data. Our method relies on homomorphic capability of lattice based encryption scheme. Our procedure is optimized for operations on packed ciphertexts in order to achieve efficient updates of the model parameters. Our method achieves a significant reduction of computations due to our way to perform multiplications and rotations on packed ciphertexts from a feedforward network to a back-propagation network. To verify the accuracy of the training model as well as the implementation feasibility, we tested our method on the Iris data set by using the CKKS scheme with Microsoft SEAL as a back end. Although our test implementation is for simple neural network training, we believe our basic implementation block can help the further applications for more complex neural network based use cases.

### 2.3. Others

* [[Sensitive Tuning of Large Scale CNNs for E2E Secure Prediction using Homomorphic Encryption](https://arxiv.org/abs/2304.14836)]
    [[pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14836.pdf)]
    [[vanity](https://www.arxiv-vanity.com/papers/2304.14836/)]
    * Title: Sensitive Tuning of Large Scale CNNs for E2E Secure Prediction using Homomorphic Encryption
    * Year: 26 Apr `2023`
    * Authors: Moran Baruch, Nir Drucker, Gilad Ezov, Eyal Kushnir, Jenny Lerner, Omri Soceanu, Itamar Zimerman
    * Abstract: Privacy-preserving machine learning solutions have recently gained significant attention. One promising research trend is using Homomorphic Encryption (HE), a method for performing computation over encrypted data. One major challenge in this approach is training HE-friendly, encrypted or unencrypted, deep CNNs with decent accuracy. We propose a novel training method for HE-friendly models, and demonstrate it on fundamental and modern CNNs, such as ResNet and ConvNeXt. After training, we evaluate our models by running encrypted samples using HELayers SDK and proving that they yield the desired results. When running on a GPU over the ImageNet dataset, our ResNet-18/50/101 implementations take only 7, 31 and 57 minutes, respectively, which shows that this solution is practical. Furthermore, we present several insights on handling the activation functions and skip-connections under HE. Finally, we demonstrate in an unprecedented way how to perform secure zero-shot prediction using a CLIP model that we adapted to be HE-friendly.
* [[Fast polynomial arithmetic in homomorphic encryption with cyclo-multiquadratic fields](https://arxiv.org/abs/2304.04619)]
    [[pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04619.pdf)]
    [[vanity](https://www.arxiv-vanity.com/papers/2304.04619/)]
    * Title: Fast polynomial arithmetic in homomorphic encryption with cyclo-multiquadratic fields
    * Year: 10 Apr `2023`
    * Authors: Iván Blanco-Chacón, Alberto Pedrouzo-Ulloa, Rahinatou Yuh Njah Nchiwo, Beatriz Barbero-Lucas
    * Abstract: We discuss the advantages and limitations of cyclotomic fields to have fast polynomial arithmetic within homomorphic encryption, and show how these limitations can be overcome by replacing cyclotomic fields by a family that we refer to as cyclo-multiquadratic. This family is of particular interest due to its arithmetic efficiency properties and to the fact that the Polynomial Learning with Errors (PLWE) and Ring Learning with Errors (RLWE) problems are equivalent for it. Likewise, we provide exact expressions for the condition number for any cyclotomic field, but under what we call the twisted power basis. As a tool for our result, we obtain refined polynomial upper bounds for the condition number of cyclotomic fields with up to 6 different primes dividing the conductor. From a more practical side, we also show that for this family, swapping between NTT and coefficient representations can be achieved at least twice faster than for the usual cyclotomic family.
* [[On homomorphic encryption using abelian groups: Classical security analysis](https://arxiv.org/abs/2302.12867)]
    [[pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2302.12867.pdf)]
    [[vanity](https://www.arxiv-vanity.com/papers/2302.12867/)]
    * Title: On homomorphic encryption using abelian groups: Classical security analysis
    * Year: 24 Feb `2023`
    * Authors: Eleni Agathocleous, Vishnupriya Anupindi, Annette Bachmayr, Chloe Martindale, Rahinatou Yuh Njah Nchiwo, Mima Stanojkovski
    * Abstract: In [15], Leonardi and Ruiz-Lopez propose an additively homomorphic public key encryption scheme whose security is expected to depend on the hardness of the learning homomorphism with noise problem (LHN). Choosing parameters for their primitive requires choosing three groups $G$, $H$, and $K$. In their paper, Leonardi and Ruiz-Lopez claim that, when $G$, $H$, and $K$ are abelian, then their public key cryptosystem is not quantum secure. In this paper, we study security for finite abelian groups $G$, $H$, and $K$ in the classical case. Moreover, we study quantum attacks on instantiations with solvable groups.
* [[Towards Automated Homomorphic Encryption Parameter Selection with Fuzzy Logic and Linear Programming](https://arxiv.org/abs/2302.08930)]
    [[pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2302.08930.pdf)]
    [[vanity](https://www.arxiv-vanity.com/papers/2302.08930/)]
    * Title: Towards Automated Homomorphic Encryption Parameter Selection with Fuzzy Logic and Linear Programming
    * Year: 17 Feb `2023`
    * Authors: José Cabrero-Holgueras, Sergio Pastrana
    * Abstract: Homomorphic Encryption (HE) is a set of powerful properties of certain cryptosystems that allow for privacy-preserving operation over the encrypted text. Still, HE is not widespread due to limitations in terms of efficiency and usability. Among the challenges of HE, scheme parametrization (i.e., the selection of appropriate parameters within the algorithms) is a relevant multi-faced problem. First, the parametrization needs to comply with a set of properties to guarantee the security of the underlying scheme. Second, parametrization requires a deep understanding of the low-level primitives since the parameters have a confronting impact on the precision, performance, and security of the scheme. Finally, the circuit to be executed influences, and it is influenced by, the parametrization. Thus, there is no general optimal selection of parameters, and this selection depends on the circuit and the scenario of the application. Currently, most of the existing HE frameworks require cryptographers to address these considerations manually. It requires a minimum of expertise acquired through a steep learning curve. In this paper, we propose a unified solution for the aforementioned challenges. Concretely, we present an expert system combining Fuzzy Logic and Linear Programming. The Fuzzy Logic Modules receive a user selection of high-level priorities for the security, efficiency, and performance of the cryptosystem. Based on these preferences, the expert system generates a Linear Programming Model that obtains optimal combinations of parameters by considering those priorities while preserving a minimum level of security for the cryptosystem. We conduct an extended evaluation where we show that an expert system generates optimal parameter selections that maintain user preferences without undergoing the inherent complexity of analyzing the circuit.
* [[A New Symmetric Homomorphic Functional Encryption over a Hidden Ring for Polynomial Public Key Encapsulations](https://arxiv.org/abs/2301.11995)]
    [[pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.11995.pdf)]
    [[vanity](https://www.arxiv-vanity.com/papers/2301.11995/)]
    * Title: A New Symmetric Homomorphic Functional Encryption over a Hidden Ring for Polynomial Public Key Encapsulations
    * Year: 27 Jan `2023`
    * Authors: Randy Kuang, Maria Perepechaenko, Ryan Toth
    * Abstract: This paper proposes a new homomorphic functional encryption using modular multiplications over a hidden ring. Unlike traditional homomorphic encryption where users can only passively perform ciphertext addition or multiplication, the homomorphic functional encryption retains homomorphic addition and scalar multiplication properties, but also allows for the user's inputs through polynomial variables. The proposed homomorphic encryption can be applied to any polynomials over a finite field, with their coefficients considered as their privacy. We denote the polynomials before homomorphic encryption as plain polynomials and after homomorphic encryption as cipher polynomials. A cipher polynomial can be evaluated with variables from the finite field, GF(p), by calculating the monomials of variables modulo a prime p. These properties allow functional homomorphic encryption to be used for public key encryption of certain asymmetric cryptosystems to hide the structure of its central map construction. We propose a new variant of MPKC with homomorphic encryption of its public key. We propose to use a single plaintext vector and a noise vector of multiple variables to be associated with the central map, in place of the secret plaintext vector to be encrypted in MPKC. We call this variant of encrypted MPKC, a Homomorphic Polynomial Public Key algorithm or HPPK algorithm. The HPPK algorithm holds the property of indistinguishability under the chosen-plaintext attacks or IND-CPA. The overall classical complexity to crack the HPPK algorithm is exponential in the size of the prime field GF(p). We briefly report on benchmarking performance results using the SUPERCOP toolkit. Benchmarking results demonstrate that HPPK offers rather fast performance, which is comparable and in some cases outperforms the NIST PQC finalists for key generation, encryption, and decryption.
* [[High-Performance Caching of Homomorphic Encryption for Cloud Databases](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.04227)]
    [[pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04227.pdf)]
    [[vanity](https://www.arxiv-vanity.com/papers/2306.04227/)]
    * Title: High-Performance Caching of Homomorphic Encryption for Cloud Databases
    * Year: 07 Jun `2023`
    * Authors: Dongfang Zhao
    * Abstract: While homomorphic encryption (HE) has garnered significant research interest in cloud-based outsourced databases due to its algebraic properties over ciphertexts, the computational overhead associated with HE has hindered its widespread adoption in production database systems. Recently, a caching technique called Radix-based additive caching of homomorphic encryption (Rache) was proposed in SIGMOD'23. The primary objective of this paper is to address the performance overhead resulting from the expensive randomization process in Rache. To achieve this, we propose a novel encryption algorithm called $ASEnc$, which replaces the computationally intensive full scan of radixes with the caching of a polynomial number of radix-powers during an offline stage. This design significantly reduces the performance impact caused by randomization. Furthermore, this paper aims to extend Rache's capabilities to support floating-point numbers. To accomplish this, we introduce a new encryption algorithm named $FSEnc$, leveraging efficient constant multiplication available in state-of-the-art fully homomorphic encryption (FHE) schemes. Notably, $FSEnc$ offers the flexibility to cache the coefficients instead of the radixes themselves, which may result in a large number of cached ciphertexts. However, we manage this efficiently by streaming the dynamically cached ciphertexts through a vector of circular buffers. We demonstrate that both encryption algorithms guarantee semantic security (IND-CPA). To validate their performance, we implement both algorithms as loadable functions in MySQL 8.0 and deploy the system prototype on a 96-core server hosted in the Chameleon Cloud. Experimental results showcase that $ASEnc$ outperforms Rache by 2.3--3.3$\times$, while $FSEnc$ surpasses the state-of-the-art floating-point FHE CKKS by 1.8--5.6$\times$.
* [[A quantum XOR oblivious transfer protocol compatible with classical partially homomorphic encryption](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.11114)]
    [[pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11114.pdf)]
    [[vanity](https://www.arxiv-vanity.com/papers/2305.11114/)]
    * Title: A quantum XOR oblivious transfer protocol compatible with classical partially homomorphic encryption
    * Year: 18 May `2023`
    * Authors: Li Yu, Jie Xu, Fuqun Wang, Chui-Ping Yang
    * Abstract: XOR oblivious transfer (XOT) is a classical cryptographic primitive which is apparently weaker than 1-out-of-2 oblivious transfer, yet still universal for secure two-party computation. In ideal XOT, Bob initially has two bits, and Alice may choose to obtain either the first bit of Bob's, or the second bit, or their exclusive-or, but does not obtain any more information, while Bob does not learn anything about her choice. In this work we firstly introduce a quantum protocol which implements the functionality of XOT on classical inputs, and we show that such protocol is insecure if Alice cheats. By building on a variant of such protocol, we present a protocol for XOT with partial security for both parties. We then propose a protocol for evaluating linear polynomials. It has near-perfect security for Alice under uniform input distributions, for large input size, but only partial security for Bob. On the hybrid security front, all these protocols can be easily combined with a classical XOR homomorphic encryption scheme to save quantum costs when evaluating linear functions.
* [[ESAFL: Efficient Secure Additively Homomorphic Encryption for Cross-Silo Federated Learning](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.08599)]
    [[pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.08599.pdf)]
    [[vanity](https://www.arxiv-vanity.com/papers/2305.08599/)]
    * Title: ESAFL: Efficient Secure Additively Homomorphic Encryption for Cross-Silo Federated Learning
    * Year: 15 May `2023`
    * Authors: Jiahui Wu, Weizhe Zhang, Fucai Luo
    * Abstract: Cross-silo federated learning (FL) enables multiple clients to collaboratively train a machine learning model without sharing training data, but privacy in FL remains a major challenge. Techniques using homomorphic encryption (HE) have been designed to solve this but bring their own challenges. Many techniques using single-key HE (SKHE) require clients to fully trust each other to prevent privacy disclosure between clients. However, fully trusted clients are hard to ensure in practice. Other techniques using multi-key HE (MKHE) aim to protect privacy from untrusted clients but lead to the disclosure of training results in public channels by untrusted third parties, e.g., the public cloud server. Besides, MKHE has higher computation and communication complexity compared with SKHE. We present a new FL protocol ESAFL that leverages a novel efficient and secure additively HE (ESHE) based on the hard problem of ring learning with errors. ESAFL can ensure the security of training data between untrusted clients and protect the training results against untrusted third parties. In addition, theoretical analyses present that ESAFL outperforms current techniques using MKHE in computation and communication, and intensive experiments show that ESAFL achieves approximate 204 times-953 times and 11 times-14 times training speedup while reducing the communication burden by 77 times-109 times and 1.25 times-2 times compared with the state-of-the-art FL models using SKHE.

## 3. Cryptographic Hash Functions

* [[Inverting Cryptographic Hash Functions via Cube-and-Conquer](https://arxiv.org/abs/2212.02405)]
    [[pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2212.02405.pdf)]
    [[vanity](https://www.arxiv-vanity.com/papers/2212.02405/)]
    * Title: Inverting Cryptographic Hash Functions via Cube-and-Conquer
    * Year: 05 Dec `2022`
    * Authors: Oleg Zaikin
    * Abstract: MD4 and MD5 are seminal cryptographic hash functions proposed in early 1990s. MD4 consists of 48 steps and produces a 128-bit hash given a message of arbitrary finite size. MD5 is a more secure 64-step extension of MD4. Both MD4 and MD5 are vulnerable to practical collision attacks, yet it is still not realistic to invert them, i.e. to find a message given a hash. In 2007, the 39-step version of MD4 was inverted via reducing to SAT and applying a CDCL solver along with the so-called Dobbertin's constraints. As for MD5, in 2012 its 28-step version was inverted via a CDCL solver for one specified hash without adding any additional constraints. In this study, Cube-and-Conquer (a combination of CDCL and lookahead) is applied to invert step-reduced versions of MD4 and MD5. For this purpose, two algorithms are proposed. The first one generates inversion problems for MD4 by gradually modifying the Dobbertin's constraints. The second algorithm tries the cubing phase of Cube-and-Conquer with different cutoff thresholds to find the one with minimal runtime estimation of the conquer phase. This algorithm operates in two modes: (i) estimating the hardness of an arbitrary given formula; (ii) incomplete SAT-solving of a given satisfiable formula. While the first algorithm is focused on inverting step-reduced MD4, the second one is not area-specific and so is applicable to a variety of classes of hard SAT instances. In this study, for the first time in history, 40-, 41-, 42-, and 43-step MD4 are inverted via the first algorithm and the estimating mode of the second algorithm. 28-step MD5 is inverted for four hashes via the incomplete SAT-solving mode of the second algorithm. For three hashes out of them this is done for the first time.
* [[A Cryptographic Hash Function from Markoff Triples](https://arxiv.org/abs/2107.10906)]
    [[pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2107.10906.pdf)]
    [[vanity](https://www.arxiv-vanity.com/papers/2107.10906/)]
    * Title: A Cryptographic Hash Function from Markoff Triples
    * Year: 22 Jul `2021`
    * Authors: Elena Fuchs, Kristin Lauter, Matthew Litman, Austin Tran
    * Abstract: Cryptographic hash functions from expander graphs were proposed by Charles, Goren, and Lauter in [CGL] based on the hardness of finding paths in the graph. In this paper, we propose a new candidate for a hash function based on the hardness of finding paths in the graph of Markoff triples modulo p. These graphs have been studied extensively in number theory and various other fields, and yet finding paths in the graphs remains difficult. We discuss the hardness of finding paths between points, based on the structure of the Markoff graphs. We investigate several possible avenues for attack and estimate their running time to be greater than O(p). In particular, we analyze a recent groundbreaking proof in [BGS1] that such graphs are connected and discuss how this proof gives an algorithm for finding paths
* [[Blockchain of Signature Material Combining Cryptographic Hash Function and DNA Steganography](https://arxiv.org/abs/1909.07914)]
    [[pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1909.07914.pdf)]
    [[vanity](https://www.arxiv-vanity.com/papers/1909.07914/)]
    * Title: Blockchain of Signature Material Combining Cryptographic Hash Function and DNA Steganography
    * Year: 17 Sep `2019`
    * Authors: Yixin Zhang
    * Abstract: An ideal signature material and method, which can be used to prove the authenticity of a physical item and against forgery, should be immune to the fast developments in digital and engineering technologies. Herein, the design of signature material combining cryptographic hash function and DNA steganography is proposed. The encrypting materials are used to construct a series of time-stamped records (blockchain) associated with published hash values, while each DNA-encrypted block is associated with a set of DNA keys. The decrypted DNA information, as digital keys, can be validated through a hash function to compare with the published hash values. The blocks can also be cross-referenced among different related signatures. While both digital cryptography and DNA steganography can have large key size, automated brutal force search is far more labor intensive and expensive for DNA steganography with wet lab experiments, as compared to its digital counterpart. Moreover, the time-stamped blockchain structure permits the incorporation of new cryptographic functions and DNA steganographies over time, thus can evolve over time without losing the continuous history line.
* [[Using fuzzy bits and neural networks to partially invert few rounds of some cryptographic hash functions](https://arxiv.org/abs/1901.02438)]
    [[pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1901.02438.pdf)]
    [[vanity](https://www.arxiv-vanity.com/papers/1901.02438/)]
    * Title: Using fuzzy bits and neural networks to partially invert few rounds of some cryptographic hash functions
    * Year: 08 Jan `2019`
    * Authors: Sergij V. Goncharov
    * Abstract: We consider fuzzy, or continuous, bits, which take values in [0;1] and (-1;1] instead of {0;1}, and operations on them (NOT, XOR etc.) and on their sequences (ADD), to obtain the generalization of cryptographic hash functions, CHFs, for the messages consisting of fuzzy bits, so that CHFs become smooth and non-constant functions of each bit of the message. We then train the neural networks to predict the message that has a given hash, where the loss function for the hash of predicted message and given true hash is backpropagatable. The results of the trainings for the standard CHFs - MD5, SHA1, SHA2-256, and SHA3/Keccak - with small number of (optionally weakened) rounds are presented and compared.
* [[Two-Dimensional Control and Assurance of Data Integrity in Information Systems Based on Residue Number System Codes and Cryptographic Hash Functions](https://arxiv.org/abs/1809.03251)]
    [[pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1809.03251.pdf)]
    [[vanity](https://www.arxiv-vanity.com/papers/1809.03251/)]
    * Title: Two-Dimensional Control and Assurance of Data Integrity in Information Systems Based on Residue Number System Codes and Cryptographic Hash Functions
    * Year: 10 Sep `2018`
    * Authors: Sergey Dichenko, Oleg Finko
    * Abstract: The method of two-dimensional control and assurance of data integrity with the possibility of their recovery for information systems operating under conditions of random errors as well as errors generated through deliberate actions of the attacker is proposed. The data recovery procedure is based on the application of the mathematical apparatus of redundant residue number system codes, and the control (verification of the recovered data validity (reliability, accuracy)) of data integrity is performed by means of cryptographic methods.
* [[Adaptive Restart and CEGAR-based Solver for Inverting Cryptographic Hash Functions](https://arxiv.org/abs/1608.04720)]
    [[pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1608.04720.pdf)]
    [[vanity](https://www.arxiv-vanity.com/papers/1608.04720/)]
    * Title: Adaptive Restart and CEGAR-based Solver for Inverting Cryptographic Hash Functions
    * Year: 16 Aug `2016`
    * Authors: Saeed Nejati, Jia Hui Liang, Vijay Ganesh, Catherine Gebotys, Krzysztof Czarnecki
    * Abstract: SAT solvers are increasingly being used for cryptanalysis of hash functions and symmetric encryption schemes. Inspired by this trend, we present MapleCrypt which is a SAT solver-based cryptanalysis tool for inverting hash functions. We reduce the hash function inversion problem for fixed targets into the satisfiability problem for Boolean logic, and use MapleCrypt to construct preimages for these targets. MapleCrypt has two key features, namely, a multi-armed bandit based adaptive restart (MABR) policy and a counterexample-guided abstraction refinement (CEGAR) technique. The MABR technique uses reinforcement learning to adaptively choose between different restart policies during the run of the solver. The CEGAR technique abstracts away certain steps of the input hash function, replacing them with the identity function, and verifies whether the solution constructed by MapleCrypt indeed hashes to the previously fixed targets. If it is determined that the solution produced is spurious, the abstraction is refined until a correct inversion to the input hash target is produced. We show that the resultant system is faster for inverting the SHA-1 hash function than state-of-the-art inversion tools.

## 4. Post-Quantum Cryptography

### 4.1. Surveys

* [[Post Quantum Cryptography: Techniques, Challenges, Standardization, and Directions for Future Research](https://arxiv.org/abs/2202.02826)]
    [[pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2202.02826.pdf)]
    [[vanity](https://www.arxiv-vanity.com/papers/2202.02826/)]
    * Title: Post Quantum Cryptography: Techniques, Challenges, Standardization, and Directions for Future Research
    * Year: 06 Feb `2022`
    * Authors: Ritik Bavdekar, Eashan Jayant Chopde, Ashutosh Bhatia, Kamlesh Tiwari, Sandeep Joshua Daniel, Atul
    * Abstract: The development of large quantum computers will have dire consequences for cryptography. Most of the symmetric and asymmetric cryptographic algorithms are vulnerable to quantum algorithms. Grover's search algorithm gives a square root time boost for the searching of the key in symmetric schemes like AES and 3DES. The security of asymmetric algorithms like RSA, Diffie Hellman, and ECC is based on the mathematical hardness of prime factorization and discrete logarithm. The best classical algorithms available take exponential time. Shor's factoring algorithm can solve the problems in polynomial time. Major breakthroughs in quantum computing will render all the present-day widely used asymmetric cryptosystems insecure. This paper analyzes the vulnerability of the classical cryptosystems in the context of quantum computers discusses various post-quantum cryptosystem families, discusses the status of the NIST post-quantum cryptography standardization process, and finally provides a couple of future research directions in this field.
* [[Post Quantum Cryptography: Readiness Challenges and the Approaching Storm](https://arxiv.org/abs/2101.01269)]
    [[pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2101.01269.pdf)]
    [[vanity](https://www.arxiv-vanity.com/papers/2101.01269/)]
    * Title: Post Quantum Cryptography: Readiness Challenges and the Approaching Storm
    * Year: 04 Jan `2021`
    * Authors: Matt Campagna, Brian LaMacchia, David Ott
    * Abstract: While advances in quantum computing promise new opportunities for scientific advancement (e.g., material science and machine learning), many people are not aware that they also threaten the widely deployed cryptographic algorithms that are the foundation of today's digital security and privacy. From mobile communications to online banking to personal data privacy, literally billions of Internet users rely on cryptography every day to ensure that private communications and data stay private. Indeed, the emergence and growth of the public Internet and electronic commerce was arguably enabled by the invention of public-key cryptography. The key advantage offered by public-key cryptography is that it allows two parties who have never communicated previously to nevertheless establish a secure, private, communication channel over a non-private network (e.g., the Internet). Recent advances in quantum computing signal that we are on the cusp of our next cryptographic algorithm transition, and this transition to post-quantum cryptography will be more complicated and impact many more systems and stakeholders, than any of the prior migrations. This transition represents a major disruption within the IT industry and will broadly impact nearly every domain of our digital lives, from global commerce to social media to government and more. Cryptographic algorithm transitions take time and involve an extensive coordination effort across many stakeholders who are involved in building and operating the world's compute infrastructure. By preparing now for the upcoming transition to these new algorithms, we can ensure a more orderly, less costly, and minimally disruptive changeover.

### 4.2. Key Distribution

* [[Quantum Cryptography: Quantum Key Distribution, a Non-technical Approach](https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.17089)]
    [[pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2211.17089.pdf)]
    [[vanity](https://www.arxiv-vanity.com/papers/2211.17089/)]
    * Title: Quantum Cryptography: Quantum Key Distribution, a Non-technical Approach
    * Year: 09 Nov `2022`
    * Authors: Andrew Frigyik
    * Abstract: With the rapid development of quantum computers the currently secure cryptographic protocols may not stay that way. Quantum mechanics provides means to create an inherently secure communication channel that is protected by the laws of physics and not by the computational hardness of certain mathematical problems. This paper is a non-technical overview of quantum key distribution, one of the most well-known application of quantum cryptography, a type of cryptography poised to exploit the laws of quantum mechanics directly.
* [[Authentication of quantum key distribution with post-quantum cryptography and replay attacks](https://arxiv.org/abs/2206.01164)]
    [[pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2206.01164.pdf)]
    [[vanity](https://www.arxiv-vanity.com/papers/2206.01164/)]
    * Title: Authentication of quantum key distribution with post-quantum cryptography and replay attacks
    * Year: 02 Jun `2022`
    * Authors: Liu-Jun Wang, You-Yang Zhou, Jian-Ming Yin, Qing Chen
    * Abstract: With the development of quantum computers, traditional cryptographic systems are facing more and more serious security threats. Fortunately, quantum key distribution (QKD) and post-quantum cryptography (PQC) are two cryptographic mechanisms with quantum-resistant security, and both will become important solutions for future information security. However, neither of them is perfect, and they are complementary. Quantum key distribution has unconditional security that post-quantum cryptography does not have, and PQC can provide secure and convenient authentication for QKD networks. In this paper, we propose two protocols based on PQC to realize the full authentication of the QKD data post-processing, and we only need to assume the short-term security of PQC algorithm to ensure the long-term quantum resistant security of distributed keys. We found that for the above two authentication protocols, attackers cannot successfully implement replay attacks. These authentication protocols can solve the problems of the current pre-shared key authentication in the application of large-scale quantum key distribution networks, and are expected to realize a key distribution mechanism with practical operability and quantum resistant security, which will be beneficial to promote the deployment and application of quantum key distribution networks.
* [[Authentication of Metropolitan Quantum Key Distribution Network with Post-quantum Cryptography](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.02432)]
    [[pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2106.02432.pdf)]
    [[vanity](https://www.arxiv-vanity.com/papers/2106.02432/)]
    * Title: Authentication of Metropolitan Quantum Key Distribution Network with Post-quantum Cryptography
    * Year: 04 Jun `2021`
    * Authors: Yong-Hua Yang, Pei-Yuan Li, Shi-Zhao Ma, Xiao-Cong Qian, Kai-Yi Zhang, Liu-Jun Wang, Wan-Li Zhang, Fei Zhou, Shi-Biao Tang, Jia-Yong Wang, Yu Yu, Qiang Zhang, Jian-Wei Pan
    * Abstract: Quantum key distribution (QKD) provides information theoretically secures key exchange requiring authentication of the classic data processing channel via pre-sharing of symmetric private keys. In previous studies, the lattice-based post-quantum digital signature algorithm Aigis-Sig, combined with public-key infrastructure (PKI) was used to achieve high-efficiency quantum security authentication of QKD, and its advantages in simplifying the MAN network structure and new user entry were demonstrated. This experiment further integrates the PQC algorithm into the commercial QKD system, the Jinan field metropolitan QKD network comprised of 14 user nodes and 5 optical switching nodes. The feasibility, effectiveness and stability of the post-quantum cryptography (PQC) algorithm and advantages of replacing trusted relays with optical switching brought by PQC authentication large-scale metropolitan area QKD network were verified. QKD with PQC authentication has potential in quantum-secure communications, specifically in metropolitan QKD networks.
* [[Experimental Authentication of Quantum Key Distribution with Post-quantum Cryptography](https://arxiv.org/abs/2009.04662)]
    [[pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2009.04662.pdf)]
    [[vanity](https://www.arxiv-vanity.com/papers/2009.04662/)]
    * Title: Experimental Authentication of Quantum Key Distribution with Post-quantum Cryptography
    * Year: 10 Sep `2020`
    * Authors: Wang Liu-Jun, Zhang Kai-Yi, Wang Jia-Yong, Cheng Jie, Yang Yong-Hua, Tang Shi-Biao, Yan Di, Tang Yan-Lin, Liu Zhen, Yu Yu, Zhang Qiang, Pan Jian-Wei
    * Abstract: Quantum key distribution (QKD) can provide information theoretically secure key exchange even in the era of quantum computer. However, QKD requires the classical channel to be authenticated, and the current method is pre-sharing symmetric keys. For a QKD network of $n$ users, this method requires $C_n^2 = n(n-1)/2$ pairs of symmetric keys to realize pairwise interconnection. In contrast, with the help of mature public key infrastructure (PKI) and post-quantum cryptography (PQC) with quantum resistant security, each user only needs to apply for a digital certificate from certificate authority (CA) to achieve efficient and secure authentication for QKD. We only need to assume the short-term security of the PQC algorithm to achieve the long-term security of the distributed keys. Here, we experimentally verified the feasibility, efficiency and stability of the PQC algorithm in QKD authentication, and demonstrated the advantages when new users join the QKD network. Using PQC authentication we only need to believe the CA is safe, rather than all trusted relays. QKD combined with PQC authentication will greatly promote and extend the application prospects of quantum safe communication.
* [[Quantum cryptography: Public key distribution and coin tossing](https://arxiv.org/abs/2003.06557)]
    [[pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2003.06557.pdf)]
    [[vanity](https://www.arxiv-vanity.com/papers/2003.06557/)]
    * Title: Quantum cryptography: Public key distribution and coin tossing
    * Year: 14 Mar `2020`
    * Authors: Charles H. Bennett, Gilles Brassard
    * Abstract: When elementary quantum systems, such as polarized photons, are used to transmit digital information, the uncertainty principle gives rise to novel cryptographic phenomena unachievable with traditional transmission media, e.g. a communications channel on which it is impossible in principle to eavesdrop without a high probability of disturbing the transmission in such a way as to be detected. Such a quantum channel can be used in conjunction with ordinary insecure classical channels to distribute random key information between two users with the assurance that it remains unknown to anyone else, even when the users share no secret information initially. We also present a protocol for coin-tossing by exchange of quantum messages, which is secure against traditional kinds of cheating, even by an opponent with unlimited computing power, but ironically can be subverted by use of a still subtler quantum phenomenon, the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen paradox.
* [[Addressable optical key distribution for unconditionally secured cryptography using phase-controlled quantum superposition](https://arxiv.org/abs/1807.08126)]
    [[pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1807.08126.pdf)]
    [[vanity](https://www.arxiv-vanity.com/papers/1807.08126/)]
    * Title: Addressable optical key distribution for unconditionally secured cryptography using phase-controlled quantum superposition
    * Year: 21 Jul `2018`
    * Authors: Byoung S. Ham
    * Abstract: Based on the detection loophole-free photon key distribution (PKD) compatible with classical optical systems, an optical key distribution (OKD) protocol is presented for unconditionally secured cryptography in fiber-optic communications networks using addressable continuous phase basis, where each communication channel is composed of paired transmission lines. The unconditional security in OKD lies in quantum superposition between the paired lines of each channel. The continuous phase basis in OKD can be applied for one-time-pad optical cryptography in networks, whose network address capacity is dependent upon the robustness of OKD to channel noises.
* [[Quantum cryptography: key distribution and beyond](https://arxiv.org/abs/1802.05517)]
    [[pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1802.05517.pdf)]
    [[vanity](https://www.arxiv-vanity.com/papers/1802.05517/)]
    * Title: Quantum cryptography: key distribution and beyond
    * Year: 15 Feb `2018`
    * Authors: Akshata Shenoy H., Anirban Pathak, R. Srikanth
    * Abstract: Uniquely among the sciences, quantum cryptography has driven both foundational research as well as practical real-life applications. We review the progress of quantum cryptography in the last decade, covering quantum key distribution and other applications.
* [[Quantum Cryptography Beyond Quantum Key Distribution](https://arxiv.org/abs/1510.06120)]
    [[pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1510.06120.pdf)]
    [[vanity](https://www.arxiv-vanity.com/papers/1510.06120/)]
    * Title: Quantum Cryptography Beyond Quantum Key Distribution
    * Year: 21 Oct `2015`
    * Authors: Anne Broadbent, Christian Schaffner
    * Abstract: Quantum cryptography is the art and science of exploiting quantum mechanical effects in order to perform cryptographic tasks. While the most well-known example of this discipline is quantum key distribution (QKD), there exist many other applications such as quantum money, randomness generation, secure two- and multi-party computation and delegated quantum computation. Quantum cryptography also studies the limitations and challenges resulting from quantum adversaries---including the impossibility of quantum bit commitment, the difficulty of quantum rewinding and the definition of quantum security models for classical primitives. In this review article, aimed primarily at cryptographers unfamiliar with the quantum world, we survey the area of theoretical quantum cryptography, with an emphasis on the constructions and limitations beyond the realm of QKD.
* [[Long-range Quantum Cryptography: Amplified Quantum Key Distribution (AQKD)](https://arxiv.org/abs/1406.6990)]
    [[pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1406.6990.pdf)]
    [[vanity](https://www.arxiv-vanity.com/papers/1406.6990/)]
    * Title: Long-range Quantum Cryptography: Amplified Quantum Key Distribution (AQKD)
    * Year: 26 Jun `2014`
    * Authors: Richard J. Hughes, Jane E. Nordholt
    * Abstract: Recently, Takeoka, Guha and Wilde have established a new (loose) upper bound on the secret key capacity of a pure-loss bosonic channel that is several times larger than an error-free BB84 QKD channel with same transmittance. This suggests that new QKD protocols may exist with higher secret key rates and effective ranges larger than the metro-area limits of BB84 QKD over optical fiber. In this paper we illustrate such a possibility with a new protocol called Amplified Quantum Key Distribution (AQKD), which will be compatible with the optical amplification typically encountered on inter-city fiber spans. We analyze one instantiation of AQKD, in which the transmitter enclave contains an optical amplifier (OA), with security against passive optical tapping. For this scenario AQKD is shown to: give three times the secret key rate of BB84 at spans up to 100km, increasing to more than a ten-fold gain at 140km; and double the maximum single-span optical fiber transmission range to inter-city distances (300km). Essential to these performance gains is a new information-theoretic protocol post-processing stage called generalized advantage distillation (GAD). AQKD could be implemented with commercial off-the-shelf (COTS) hardware as an augmentation of present-day BB84 QKD. AQKD avoids the expense, complexity and resource duplication of "trusted relay" approaches to QKD range extension. We expect AQKD to be compatible with fiber spans containing intermediate OAs, which will facilitate its deployment as an overlay on existing fiber networks.
* [[Review of MANETS Using Distributed Public-key Cryptography](https://arxiv.org/abs/1405.0100)]
    [[pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1405.0100.pdf)]
    [[vanity](https://www.arxiv-vanity.com/papers/1405.0100/)]
    * Title: Review of MANETS Using Distributed Public-key Cryptography
    * Year: 01 May `2014`
    * Authors: Ms. Rajni, Ms. Reena
    * Abstract: Ensuring security is something that is not easily done as many of the demands of network security conflict with the demands of mobile networks, majorly because of the nature of the mobile devices (e.g. low power consumption, low processing load). The study of secure distributed key agreement has great theoretical and practical significance. Securing Mobile Ad-hoc Networks using Distributed Public-key Cryptography in pairing with Mobile Ad hoc Networks and various protocols are essential for secure communications in open and distributed environment.
* [[A Review On Securing Distributed Systems Using Symmetric Key Cryptography](https://arxiv.org/abs/1303.0351)]
    [[pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1303.0351.pdf)]
    [[vanity](https://www.arxiv-vanity.com/papers/1303.0351/)]
    * Title: A Review On Securing Distributed Systems Using Symmetric Key Cryptography
    * Year: 02 Mar `2013`
    * Authors: Ramesh Babu, George Abraham, Kiransinh Borasia
    * Abstract: This review is aimed to evaluate the importance of Symmetric Key Cryptography for Security in Distributed Systems. Businesses around the world as well as research and other such areas rely heavily on distributed systems these days. Hence, security is also a major concern due to the openness of the system. Out of the various available security measures, we, in this paper, concentrate in general on the symmetric key cryptographic technique. We review two widely used and popular symmetric key cryptographic algorithms, viz. DES and AES. These two algorithms are evaluated on the parameters such as key size, block size, number of iterations, etc.

### 4.3. Others

* [[Secure Communication Model For Quantum Federated Learning: A Post Quantum Cryptography (PQC) Framework](https://arxiv.org/abs/2304.13413)]
    [[pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13413.pdf)]
    [[vanity](https://www.arxiv-vanity.com/papers/2304.13413/)]
    * Title: Secure Communication Model For Quantum Federated Learning: A Post Quantum Cryptography (PQC) Framework
    * Year: 26 Apr `2023`
    * Authors: Dev Gurung, Shiva Raj Pokhrel, Gang Li
    * Abstract: We design a model of Post Quantum Cryptography (PQC) Quantum Federated Learning (QFL). We develop a framework with a dynamic server selection and study convergence and security conditions. The implementation and results are publicly available1.
* [[Towards Managing the Migration to Post-Quantum-Cryptography](https://arxiv.org/abs/2301.04491)]
    [[pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.04491.pdf)]
    [[vanity](https://www.arxiv-vanity.com/papers/2301.04491/)]
    * Title: Towards Managing the Migration to Post-Quantum-Cryptography
    * Year: 11 Jan `2023`
    * Authors: Nils von Nethen, Alex Wiesmaier, Nouri Alnahawi, Johanna Henrich, Oliver Weissmann
    * Abstract: As soon as cryptographically relevant quantum computers exist, they can break today's prevalent asymmetric cryptographic algorithms. Organizations (and the IT society) have to plan on migrating to quantum-resilient cryptographic measures, also known as post-quantum cryptography (PQC). However, this is a difficult task, and to the best of our knowledge, there is no generalized approach to manage such a complex migration for cryptography used in IT systems. PMMP helps organizations manage the migration to PQC and establish crypto-agility. Having finished the initial theoretical design phase, we are now looking to promote PMMP to encourage practitioners to join the effort and work with us to develop it further.
* [[Securing the Future Internet of Things with Post-Quantum Cryptography](https://arxiv.org/abs/2206.10473)]
    [[pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2206.10473.pdf)]
    [[vanity](https://www.arxiv-vanity.com/papers/2206.10473/)]
    * Title: Securing the Future Internet of Things with Post-Quantum Cryptography
    * Year: 21 Jun `2022`
    * Authors: Adarsh Kumar, Carlo Ottaviani, Sukhpal Singh Gill, Rajkumar Buyya
    * Abstract: Traditional and lightweight cryptography primitives and protocols are insecure against quantum attacks. Thus, a real-time application using traditional or lightweight cryptography primitives and protocols does not ensure full-proof security. Post-quantum Cryptography is important for the Internet of Things (IoT) due to its security against Quantum attacks. This paper offers a broad literature analysis of post-quantum cryptography for IoT networks, including the challenges and research directions to adopt in real-time applications. The work draws focus towards post-quantum cryptosystems that are useful for resource-constraint devices. Further, those quantum attacks are surveyed, which may occur over traditional and lightweight cryptographic primitives.
* [[Post-Quantum Cryptography Algorithms Standardization and Performance Analysis](https://arxiv.org/abs/2204.02571)]
    [[pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2204.02571.pdf)]
    [[vanity](https://www.arxiv-vanity.com/papers/2204.02571/)]
    * Title: Post-Quantum Cryptography Algorithms Standardization and Performance Analysis
    * Year: 06 Apr `2022`
    * Authors: Manish Kumar
    * Abstract: Quantum computer is no longer a hypothetical idea. It is the worlds most important technology and there is a race among countries to get supremacy in quantum technology. Its the technology that will reduce the computing time from years to hours or even minutes. The power of quantum computing will be a great support for the scientific community. However, it raises serious threats to cybersecurity. Theoretically, all the cryptography algorithms are vulnerable to attack. The practical quantum computers, when available with millions of qubits capacity, will be able to break nearly all modern public-key cryptographic systems. Before the quantum computers arrive with sufficient qubit capacity, we must be ready with quantum-safe cryptographic algorithms, tools, techniques, and deployment strategies to protect the ICT infrastructure. This paper discusses in detail the global effort for the design, development, and standardization of various quantum-safe cryptography algorithms along with the performance analysis of some of the potential quantum-safe algorithms. Most of the quantum-safe algorithms need more CPU cycles, higher runtime memory, and large key size. The objective of the paper is to analyze the feasibility of the various quantum-safe cryptography algorithms.
* [[Network Coding-Based Post-Quantum Cryptography](https://arxiv.org/abs/2009.01931)]
    [[pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2009.01931.pdf)]
    [[vanity](https://www.arxiv-vanity.com/papers/2009.01931/)]
    * Title: Network Coding-Based Post-Quantum Cryptography
    * Year: 03 Sep `2020`
    * Authors: Alejandro Cohen, Rafael G. L. D'Oliveira, Salman Salamatian, Muriel Medard
    * Abstract: We propose a novel hybrid universal network-coding cryptosystem (HUNCC) to obtain secure post-quantum cryptography at high communication rates. The secure network-coding scheme we offer is hybrid in the sense that it combines information-theory security with public-key cryptography. In addition, the scheme is general and can be applied to any communication network, and to any public-key cryptosystem. Our hybrid scheme is based on the information theoretic notion of individual secrecy, which traditionally relies on the assumption that an eavesdropper can only observe a subset of the communication links between the trusted parties - an assumption that is often challenging to enforce. For this setting, several code constructions have been developed, where the messages are linearly mixed before transmission over each of the paths in a way that guarantees that an adversary which observes only a subset has sufficient uncertainty about each individual message. Instead, in this paper, we take a computational viewpoint, and construct a coding scheme in which an arbitrary secure cryptosystem is utilized on a subset of the links, while a pre-processing similar to the one in individual security is utilized. Under this scheme, we demonstrate 1) a computational security guarantee for an adversary which observes the entirety of the links 2) an information theoretic security guarantee for an adversary which observes a subset of the links, and 3) information rates which approach the capacity of the network and greatly improve upon the current solutions. A perhaps surprising consequence of our scheme is that, to guarantee a computational security level b, it is sufficient to encrypt a single link using a computational post-quantum scheme. In addition, the information rate approaches 1 as the number of communication links increases.
* [[General Linear Group Action on Tensors: A Candidate for Post-Quantum Cryptography](https://arxiv.org/abs/1906.04330)]
    [[pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1906.04330.pdf)]
    [[vanity](https://www.arxiv-vanity.com/papers/1906.04330/)]
    * Title: General Linear Group Action on Tensors: A Candidate for Post-Quantum Cryptography
    * Year: 11 Jun `2019`
    * Authors: Zhengfeng Ji, Youming Qiao, Fang Song, Aaram Yun
    * Abstract: Starting from the one-way group action framework of Brassard and Yung (Crypto '90), we revisit building cryptography based on group actions. Several previous candidates for one-way group actions no longer stand, due to progress both on classical algorithms (e.g., graph isomorphism) and quantum algorithms (e.g., discrete logarithm). We propose the general linear group action on tensors as a new candidate to build cryptography based on group actions. Recent works (Futorny--Grochow--Sergeichuk, Lin. Alg. Appl., 2019) suggest that the underlying algorithmic problem, the tensor isomorphism problem, is the hardest one among several isomorphism testing problems arising from areas including coding theory, computational group theory, and multivariate cryptography. We present evidence to justify the viability of this proposal from comprehensive study of the state-of-art heuristic algorithms, theoretical algorithms, and hardness results, as well as quantum algorithms. We then introduce a new notion called pseudorandom group actions to further develop group-action based cryptography. Briefly speaking, given a group $G$ acting on a set $S$, we assume that it is hard to distinguish two distributions of $(s, t)$ either uniformly chosen from $S\times S$, or where $s$ is randomly chosen from $S$ and $t$ is the result of applying a random group action of $g\in G$ on $s$. This subsumes the classical decisional Diffie-Hellman assumption when specialized to a particular group action. We carefully analyze various attack strategies that support the general linear group action on tensors as a candidate for this assumption. Finally, we establish the quantum security of several cryptographic primitives based on the one-way group action assumption and the pseudorandom group action assumption.
* [[Post-Quantum Cryptography: Riemann Primitives and Chrysalis](https://arxiv.org/abs/1801.07702)]
    [[pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1801.07702.pdf)]
    [[vanity](https://www.arxiv-vanity.com/papers/1801.07702/)]
    * Title: Post-Quantum Cryptography: Riemann Primitives and Chrysalis
    * Year: 23 Jan `2018`
    * Authors: Ian Malloy
    * Abstract: The Chrysalis project is a proposed method for post-quantum cryptography using the Riemann sphere. To this end, Riemann primitives are introduced in addition to a novel implementation of this new method. Chrysalis itself is the first cryptographic scheme to rely on Holomorphic Learning with Errors, which is a complex form of Learning with Errors relying on the Gauss Circle Problem within the Riemann sphere. The principle security reduction proposed by this novel cryptographic scheme applies complex analysis of a Riemannian manifold along with tangent bundles relative to a disjoint union of subsets based upon a maximal element. A surjective function allows the mapping of multivariate integrals onto subspaces. The proposed NP-Hard problem for security reduction is the non-commutative Grothendieck problem. The reduction of this problem is achieved by applying bilinear matrices in terms of the holomorphic vector bundle such that coordinate systems are intersected via surjective functions between each holomorphic expression. The result is an arbitrarily selected set of points within constraints of bilinear matrix inequalities approximate to the non-commutative problem. This is achieved by applying the quadratic form of bilinear matrices to a linear matrix inequality.
* [[Post-Quantum Cryptography: S381 Cyclic Subgroup of High Order](https://arxiv.org/abs/1704.07238)]
    [[pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1704.07238.pdf)]
    [[vanity](https://www.arxiv-vanity.com/papers/1704.07238/)]
    * Title: Post-Quantum Cryptography: S381 Cyclic Subgroup of High Order
    * Year: 24 Apr `2017`
    * Authors: Pedro Hecht
    * Abstract: Currently there is an active Post-Quantum Cryptography (PQC) solutions search, which attempts to find cryptographic protocols resistant to attacks by means of for instance Shor polynomial time algorithm for numerical field problems like integer factorization (IFP) or the discrete logarithm (DLP). The use of non-commutative or non-associative structures are, among others, valid choices for these kinds of protocols. In our case, we focus on a permutation subgroup of high order and belonging to the symmetric group S381. Using adequate one-way functions (OWF), we derived a Diffie-Hellman key exchange and an ElGamal ciphering procedure that only relies on combinatorial operations. Both OWF pose hard search problems which are assumed as not belonging to BQP time-complexity class. Obvious advantages of present protocols are their conceptual simplicity, fast throughput implementations, high cryptanalytic security and no need for arithmetic operations and therefore extended precision libraries. Such features make them suitable for low performance and low power consumption platforms like smart cards, USB-keys and cellphones.
* [[Post-Quantum Cryptography: A Zero-Knowledge Authentication Protocol](https://arxiv.org/abs/1703.08630)]
    [[pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1703.08630.pdf)]
    [[vanity](https://www.arxiv-vanity.com/papers/1703.08630/)]
    * Title: Post-Quantum Cryptography: A Zero-Knowledge Authentication Protocol
    * Year: 25 Mar `2017`
    * Authors: Pedro Hecht
    * Abstract: In this paper, we present a simple bare-bones solution of a Zero-Knowledge authentication protocol which uses non-commutative algebra and a variation of the generalized symmetric decomposition problem (GSDP) as a one-way function. The cryptographic security is assured as long the GSDP problem is computationally hard to solve in non-commutative algebraic structures and belongs currently to the PQC category as no quantum computer attack is likely to exists.
* [[Post-Quantum Cryptography(PQC): Generalized ElGamal Cipher over GF(251^8)](https://arxiv.org/abs/1702.03587)]
    [[pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1702.03587.pdf)]
    [[vanity](https://www.arxiv-vanity.com/papers/1702.03587/)]
    * Title: Post-Quantum Cryptography(PQC): Generalized ElGamal Cipher over GF(251^8)
    * Year: 12 Feb `2017`
    * Authors: Pedro Hecht
    * Abstract: Post-Quantum Cryptography (PQC) attempts to find cryptographic protocols resistant to attacks by means of for instance Shor's polynomial time algorithm for numerical field problems like integer factorization (IFP) or the discrete logarithm (DLP). Other aspects are the backdoors discovered in deterministic random generators or recent advances in solving some instances of DLP. The use of alternative algebraic structures like non-commutative or non-associative partial groupoids, magmas, monoids, semigroups, quasigroups or groups, are valid choices for these new kinds of protocols. In this paper, we focus in an asymmetric cipher based on a generalized ElGamal non-arbitrated protocol using a non-commutative general linear group. The developed protocol forces a hard subgroup membership search problem into a non-commutative structure. The protocol involves at first a generalized Diffie-Hellman key interchange and further on the private and public parameters are recursively updated each time a new cipher session is launched. Security is based on a hard variation of the Generalized Symmetric Decomposition Problem (GSDP). Working with GF(251^8) a 64-bits security is achieved, and if GF(251^16) is chosen, the security rises to 127-bits. An appealing feature is that there is no need for big number libraries as all arithmetic if performed in Z_251 and therefore the new protocol is particularly useful for computational platforms with very limited capabilities like smartphones or smartcards.
* [[Quantum cryptography with finite resources: unconditional security bound for discrete-variable protocols with one-way post-processing](https://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0709)]
    [[pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/0708.0709.pdf)]
    [[vanity](https://www.arxiv-vanity.com/papers/0708.0709/)]
    * Title: Quantum cryptography with finite resources: unconditional security bound for discrete-variable protocols with one-way post-processing
    * Year: 06 Aug `2007`
    * Authors: Valerio Scarani, Renato Renner
    * Abstract: We derive a bound for the security of QKD with finite resources under one-way post-processing, based on a definition of security that is composable and has an operational meaning. While our proof relies on the assumption of collective attacks, unconditional security follows immediately for standard protocols like Bennett-Brassard 1984 and six-states. For single-qubit implementations of such protocols, we find that the secret key rate becomes positive when at least N\sim 10^5 signals are exchanged and processed. For any other discrete-variable protocol, unconditional security can be obtained using the exponential de Finetti theorem, but the additional overhead leads to very pessimistic estimates.
